welcome to recap one alice in borderland
released the 10th of december 2020 with
eight episode
episode 1 in the opening scene which
introduces arisu the alice of the title
he's an avid gamer he's very clever but
he's also a layabout much to the chagrin
of his stern father and careerist
brother
he's clearly still hammering some trauma
over the death of his mother and he
finds solace in his friend's karub and
choda
whom he meets up with outside the
bustling shibuya station
arisu karub and chodas messing around
earns them the attention of the
authorities
and all three take shelter in a toilet
cubicle inside shibuya station
when they emerge the entirety of tokyo
including shibuya crossing one of the
most famously busy junctions in the
world is deserted
and it really works here as the trio
begin to poke around
all their phones are dead nobody is
around behind them a building lights up
to inform them that a game will commence
in a moment and an arrow directs them to
the arena where it'll take place
with no better ideas they follow the
arrow to the gm building
where they pick up new smartphones with
face recognition software that relay
details of the game to the players who
also include the severe shibuki sauri
and a sacrificial lamb whose name i
didn't catch but who is only really
present to make the players and audience
aware of the stakes
those stakes are pretty life-threatening
once the game is underway it has a
border that instantly kills any player
who crosses it with a laser
a playing card the three of clubs
denotes the difficulty of the game which
is called dead or alive
the rules are simple in a series of
rooms and within a shortening time limit
the players have to select the correct
door out of two choices marked live or
die
there's a two-minute timer on the first
room which eventually starts flooding
with gas here's where the no name girl
is offered as a sacrifice to prove to
the players that choosing the wrong door
means instant death though it's telling
that she's manipulated into choosing by
shibuki he leads the group through the
right door each time and despite chota
getting caught by the flames on the way
out they all make it out alive
since the game was ranked as the three
of clubs that gives the winners a
three-day visa
to explain what that means a random man
stumbles into the alleyway to declare
that he's dropping out of the game since
it never ends no matter how much you
clear
his visa expires and he gets lasered to
death instantly so we have our stakes
set nice and high
the characters all have to continue
playing right on cue we see lights crop
up all over tokyo presumably denoting
the location of more games as the camera
cuts to a woman stood on a rooftop
surveying the city
alice in borderland episode 2 opens with
the woman who functioned as something of
a cliffhanger in the previous episode
she's literally a mountain climber who
promises the memory of her father that
she's going to survive
her name is usagi this little getting to
know you session provides some quick
backstory for shibuki who was sleeping
with her boss when everyone disappeared
but also ponders some more lingering
questions about the overarching
mysteries
for shibuki everyone disappeared three
days ago yet for the boys it was only
yesterday
the next game includes usagi kurubun
arasu there are a total of 13
participants this time the difficulty
this time is the five of spades
a man named naitobe explains what this
means the suits denote the type of game
clubs are a team battle diamonds test
wits spades is physical
and hearts the worst category force you
to play with people's emotions
the number obviously denotes difficulty
the game this time around is tag and the
goal is to touch a symbol hidden in one
of the apartments in the block where the
game takes place while avoiding the
tagger
after 20 minutes a time bomb hidden in
the apartment building will explode
there's also an additional complication
the tagger is wearing a horse head mask
and is carrying a submachine gun
if he tags you or not you're dead but
once the players begin being messily
killed off by both the tagger and the
border when they try to escape it's only
usagi who responds to arasu's shouted
instructions when he determines that the
tiger's mask limits his field of vision
and that they can exploit that to defeat
him
having said that a thuggish player named
aguni and his accomplice team up with
karug to physically take the tagger down
while arasu and usagi search for the
symbol
anyway both arisu and silva hare figure
that the symbol is in the apartment the
tagger fired at from a distance the mach
10 wouldn't be effective from
he was trying to keep the players away
from the door when they enter though
they're attacked by another tagger and
separated
arisu makes it into the room with the
symbol but it requires two people to
push two separate buttons at the same
time which he shouts out of the window
as a goonie fights one tagger and arisu
fights the other usagi makes her way to
the room in the nick of time and both
she and arisu with the help of silver
hairs taser are able to clear the game
with only a second remaining
the tagger in the room is revealed to be
a woman wearing a collar that detonates
once she loses the game
the episode ends with karub finding a
radio on a gooni's compatriot the voice
on the channel insists that the answer
is in our hands now and implores
everyone to get back to the beach
alice in borderland episode 3 opens with
the gang back together pondering the
beach as their next most promising lead
but they can't follow up on it just yet
since chota and shibuki's visas are
about to expire so they need to win a
game
arisu meanwhile is still struggling with
the guilt of the tagger's death which he
believes was entirely his fault
here we begin to see stress causing some
friction within the group
when kurub takes a slight dita to pick
up an engagement ring from his former
place of work chota snaps at him because
he and shibuki are running out of time
it's only fitting then that the next
game is designated as seven of hearts
and is designed to test their
relationship
this game which takes place at the
botanical gardens is much crueler than
the ones we've seen thus far as it seems
it's only possible for one person to win
it
as part of the rules everyone has to
wear a pair of goggles
one person is designated a wolf and the
other three are sheep
a lamb found by a wolf becomes the next
wolf and so on and so forth passing the
role of the wolf back and forth
whoever's the wolf at the end wins and
all the lamb's collars explode
a wolf catches a lamb by making eye
contact with it so the idea is to become
the wolf and then run away and hide
chota becomes the first wolf
automatically but shibuki quickly steals
the position from him and legs
karub gives chase and they fight while
arasu implores them to help him outsmart
the game rather than just give in to it
arisu is still mightily struggling with
his guilt over the death of the tagger
we're treated to some flashbacks of
arisu's home life with his father and
his brother hajimi and also to a bit
more of the central trio's friendship
with time running out arisu offers to
drop out since his friends are all that
matter to him
he's the wolf but when he runs out into
the open he can't find anyone
nobody responds to him on the radio and
we see chota drag shibuki his hand over
her mouth into the foliage
they're all hiding from him sacrificing
themselves for him i was convinced that
there was going to be some last minute
way out of this
but no the timer ticks down to zero and
the collars explode karub's right in
front of arasu
alice in borderland just killed off
three of its four main characters in
just the third episode
after the calamitous ending of the
previous episode arisu is struggling
in fact usagi finds him collapsed in the
middle of the road begging to die
the first portion of alice in borderland
episode 4 gives her some welcome
backstory for usagi
usagi's key relationship is obviously
the one she shared with her father a
fellow climber who was accused of faking
his widely publicised no-oxygen climbs
and subsequently killed himself
the loss of her father obviously deeply
affected usagi so she knows how arisu
feels when he says he wants to die
he thinks he personally killed his
friends and therefore doesn't deserve to
live
she reasons that since they're going to
die at some point they might as well eat
while they're alive and they do and some
progress is made
arasu's visa is due to expire so he
needs to play another game and usagi
wants to repay her for saving her life
during the tag game so they go together
to the next challenge which begins on a
bus in an underground highway
a team is already aboard a threesome who
met during their first game and have
cleared three more since then as a team
this game is called distance and is
rated a four of clubs
the deliberately vague clear condition
is to safely attain the goal but
everyone determines it involves running
a significant distance
the problem is that one of the dudes
they just met takuma has a badly injured
leg and can't do that so he demands
everyone leaves him behind
they do and set off running eventually a
distance tracker on the smartphone keeps
notching up the miles the group reaches
a replenishment station which they're
all too hesitant to drink from
so usagi shares her little canteen with
arisu and he shares it with everyone
else
further on they come face to face with a
big cat it looks like a panther or some
such which pursues them in the other
direction
cezanne one of the threesome gets eaten
leaving behind only the guy with a wife
and kid whose name i never caught
let's just call him family man anyway
the next thing the group comes across is
an old royal enfield motorcycle with a
diesel engine which should still run
despite the suspected emp detonation
since it doesn't have any electrical
circuits
arisu plan which admittedly is rather
far-fetched is to push the bike back the
way they came and use the diesel in it
to fuel up the bus and thus rescue
takuma but just in case usagi and family
man continue running as they were
having made it to what they believe is
the end point usagi and family man sit
down and have a chat until they're
interrupted by jets of water bursting
through the creaky doors at the end of
the tunnel
as the metal begins to bow and more and
more water begins leaking in they set
off running back the way they came at
full sprint hoping to outrun the tidal
wave
family man isn't able to usagi though is
saved in the nick of time by arisu who
is able to drag her onto the speeding
bus which is promptly swept up and
toppled over by the current
when everyone comes to we see that the
graffiti on the side of the bus reads
goal
their distance counters had been
counting how far away from the goal they
were getting
they were safe at zero the bus was the
goal all along with their visas renewed
arisu and usagi decide to head to the
beach next and arasa resolves to stop
the architect of these games and return
the world to how it was
subscribe and turn on notification to
get update recap alice in bundlin part
2.